[deepspeed docs] DeepSpeed ZeRO Inference (#15486)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/main_classes/deepspeed.mdx

[[autodoc]] deepspeed.HfDeepSpeedConfig
    - all

### DeepSpeed ZeRO Inference

Here is an example of how one could do DeepSpeed ZeRO Inference without using [`Trainer`] when one can't fit a model onto a single GPU. The solution includes using additional GPUs or/and offloading GPU memory to CPU memory.

> The important nuance to understand here is that the way ZeRO is designed you can process different inputs on different gpus in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The important nuance to understand here is that the way ZeRO is designed you can process different inputs on different GPUs in parallel.
```
Nit: let's be consistent with the casing.

> The example has copious notes and is self-documenting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example has copious notes and is self-documented.
```

Author: self-documenting is an idiom.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-documenting_code

I have never seen the "self-documented" form.

Reviewer: Oh ok.

Make sure to:

> 1. disable cpu offload if you have enough GPU memory (since it slows things down)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. disable CPU offload if you have enough GPU memory (since it slows things down)
```

> 2. enable bf16 if you own an Ampere or a newer gpu to make things faster. If you don't have that hardware you may enable fp16 as long as you use a different model than a t5-variant or any other model that was pre-trained in bf16 mixed precision - these usually overflow in fp16 and you will see garbage as output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. enable bf16 if you own an Ampere or a newer gpu to make things faster. If you don't have that hardware you may enable fp16 as long as you don use any model that was pre-trained in bf16 mixed precision (such as use t5 models). These usually overflow in fp16 and you will see garbage as output.
```

Author: I further edited your suggestion as it was garbled a bit :)

> ```

Reviewer: Should there be python here?

Author: hmm, let me move out the bash call and then yes we can put `python` there.

Author: grr, switching to `python` now the autoformatter wants to interfere with the code example :(

is there any way to tell it not to change some parts?

It's trying to change this:

```
@@ -1847,20 +1847,17 @@ ds_config = {
     },
     "zero_optimization": {
         "stage": 3,
-        "offload_param": {
-            "device": "cpu",
-            "pin_memory": True
-        },
+        "offload_param": {"device": "cpu", "pin_memory": True},
         "overlap_comm": True,
         "contiguous_gradients": True,
         "reduce_bucket_size": model_hidden_size * model_hidden_size,
         "stage3_prefetch_bucket_size": 0.9 * model_hidden_size * model_hidden_size,
-        "stage3_param_persistence_threshold": 10 * model_hidden_size
+        "stage3_param_persistence_threshold": 10 * model_hidden_size,
     },
     "steps_per_print": 2000,
     "train_batch_size": train_batch_size,
     "train_micro_batch_size_per_gpu": 1,
-    "wall_clock_breakdown": False
+    "wall_clock_breakdown": False,
```

which makes it much more difficult to copy to/from json file, including collapsing vertical space which makes the config much more difficult to deal with.

Author: You can see an example of how json wants it here: https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/tests/deepspeed/ds_config_zero3.json

Reviewer: It's black formatted, so you would have to use the usual comment to deactivate black. But maybe itś better to not add the `python` then.
